GPC-442: DI alignment ADR (#1396)
alphagov/di-data-life-events-platform: doc/architecture/decisions/0027-di-alignment.md

# 27. DI Alignment

[Next >>](9999-end.md)

Date: 2023-006-16

## Status

Proposed

## Context

Due to our move into the DI/One Login teams, we want to align our whole approach as much as possible with their current
patterns. This is because we want to make our system familiar and easy to access for support and other teams inside the
DI space, and to make sure our security and resiliency standings align with theirs.

> This document is looking at approaches to realign our system and architecture, but not the deployment pipeline, with

Reviewer: Do we need another thought about the deployment pipeline?

Author: I think the secure pipeline etc stuff should be a separate ADR once we know more about the actual process

> This document is looking at approaches to realign our system and architecture, but not the deployment pipeline, with
> these patterns. We are looking here at how to replace the containerised central system with a more serverless approach,
> as is favoured in DI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Scope
This document is looking at approaches to realign our system and architecture with
these patterns. We are looking here at how to replace the containerised central system with a more serverless approach,
as is favoured in DI.

Deployment pipelines are out of scope for this ADR and will be considered seperately.
```

## Approach

Our approach here is a large rework of our architecture, while maintaining a similar data flow and disrupting our
integrations as little as possible. Currently, the only major integration is DWP with access to a queue for receiving

> events from our system.

Reviewer: I think we should mention that we've discussed/built the HMPO ingest side too

   to that endpoint.
2. Validation - The API gateway endpoints will send their message after authorisation to validation lambdas that perform
   custom validation for that event type, we will have 1 per event type.
3. Enrichment - The validation lambdas post onto an SQS queue that allows us to have error handling, this queue is then
   consumed by an enrichment lambda that will enrich the event with all the enrichment of that event type.
4. SNS - The enrichment lambdas then put the event payload on SNS topics, 1 per event type, that will take the event
   payload from the enrichment lambdas.
5. Minimisation - SQS queues, 1 per acquirer per event type, will be subscribed to the SNS topic, and will then pass the
   information onto a minimisation lambda, which will restrict and minimise the event payload to only the enrichment
   fields that that specific acquirer has.
6. Delivery - The minimisation lambdas will then put the final minimised event payload onto the final acquirer queues,
   which our acquirers will then directly interface with.

![Image](di-alignment.svg)

> ### Organisation management

Reviewer: I think we should document impacts around things like dynamic infra etc here too

Author: Yep, that was gonna be under the organisation management, am in the process of writing that
